[Music]
eight body parts you know nothing about
the human body is a whole universe with
its laws and mysteries many of which we
have yet to unravel have you ever
wondered why we got a groove between our
nose and top lip it's called the
philtrum and it exists for a reason
let's have a look at eight vital parts
of our bodies that we never pay
attention to Newberry
the anatomical snuffbox if you stretch
your thumb a bit you'll see a small
triangular pit at its base this is what
medics call the anatomical snuffbox in
the past people use it to snuff to back
up this is also the place where you can
always feel the radial artery beating
even if the pulse is weak the artery
here is only protected by the skin and
connective tissue number seven the big
toe we all know where it is but we
rarely give a second thought to the fact
that this body part has been given one
of the most crucial functions in our
body because of the peculiar shape of
the big toe we can infinitely balance in
a standing position which is one of the
main reasons between humans and other
mammals glabella we bet you didn't even
think the small patch of skin between
your eyebrows had a name and yet it does
glabella it's an important part of your
body that helps you easily check your
reflexes anytime tap your finger a few
times between your eyebrows if your
reflexes are fine you'll feel a slight
tension in your eyes and want to blink
number-5 frenulum of the tongue this
little fold beneath your tongue has an
important function it fixates the tongue
in the mouth and makes it less flexible
this ability prevents Glossip ptosis
spontaneous swallowing of the tongue
it's especially vital for newborn babies
who aren't yet able to control their
body number four tragus and anti tragus
here's an interesting fact the names of
these little bumps in our ears come from
the latin word Tragos a goat the tragus
helps us hear sounds coming from behind
amplifying them and detecting their
source the anti tragus does the same
with sounds coming from the front number
three
tonsils many of us had a routine
surgical operation in our childhood to
remove our tonsils this creates the
illusion that they are something like
the appendix a rudimentary and
unnecessary organ but that's not true
the tonsils are the first barrier
protecting us from bacteria and viruses
by secreting lymphocytes when they
inflame and get removed the body still
has other protective mechanisms but it's
safer with the tonsils number 2 nail
cuticles anyone who's had a manicure at
least once in their life knows the word
cuticle it's a thick skin patch on the
border of the nail and the finger people
often cut their cuticles to make their
hands perfect but they risk a lot the
cuticles really have an important
function they protect our hands from
harmful bacteria that are especially
abundant in big cities if bacteria get
into your body through a tiny wound made
by cutting the cuticle washing your
hands won't help and number 1 the
philtrum most specialist agree that the
philtrum developed in humans in
prehistoric times and played the role of
smell amplifier today we don't need such
a good sense of smell
but the philtrum is still there to
remind us of our roots
in addition doctors can determine the
state of health of an unborn baby by the
shape of this body part sometimes a
wrongly shaped philtrum tells of autism
or other conditions do you know other
intriguing facts about our body share
them in the comments don't forget to hit
the like button below the video and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]